USING scriptvm Templates
----

Colin William Sept 28 2029


This is a documentation for the multiple json files that are needed to run Azure VM deployment using
Azure Templates. This includes launching a base VM, then launching Custom Script Extensions that allow us to run
some Linux shell (.sh) scripts to install R and RStudio.

Launching a VM:
To start, we will launch a VM using the template.
The file VMtemplate.json contains a template to launch a VM. The file VMtemplate.parameters.json includes the parameters
we are using with that VM launch. Using the Azure CLI, (elaborate) the command "az deployment group create --resource-group rg --template-file VMtemplate.json --parameters VMtemplate.parameters.json"
can be used to launch the VM within the provided resource group.

Once the deployment is complete, navigate to the Azure Portal to ensure your VM has been provisioned.

Launching Script Extensions:
In its simplest form, a script can be run on a VM as long as the shell script resides within a storage account on the Azure Portal
The extensionscript.json includes the minimum fields needed to run a script this way. 




NOTE THAT THE STORAGE ACCOUNT KEY WILL HAVE TO BE ADDED INTO THE EXTENSIONSCRIPTS JSONS, THEY ARE TAKEN OUT FOR GITLAB UPLOAD

THE STORAGE ACCOUNT USED IN THE JSONS IS THE STORAGE ACCOUNT WHERE THE SHELL SCRIPTS HAVE BEEN UPLOADED TO.

  Fixed script error with -y on the apt-get install commands, still does not boot rstudio for both methods

  VM from template, running each command individually with the "Run command" tab on the VM portal.
  The contents up to and including the command "sudo apt-get -y install apache2" Work and run as 
  entering the VM ip address into the browser will open the Apache2 Ubuntu Default Page
    - This also works using a script extension that includes the same commands

vm seems to clear all changes after commands are run:
For EXAMPLE:

mkdir rstudio
ls 

OUTPUTS: 
rstudio
script.sh
stderr
stdout

then after this is run, if you run ls, the rstudio directory is no longer present. 
this is due to each code run being in a different directory made specifically for that script to run

even when changing to a static directory, the sudeo gdebi command does not work

having issues with the wget and sudo gdebi commands in order to get rstudio up and running

The shell script works when ssh into vm and running directly

cannot cd ~ in extensions

trying to cd / out of start location then make a new directory and run code there THIS WORKS